hi guys what's up and welcome back to
the small it exchange do something that
few of you guys have slid inside dams
and asked for and that is talked about
how I use iPhones health app and how I
sort of interpret and collect the daily
data that it reports like step count and
heart rate variability and all that
stuff I know that they collect a lot of
data now especially if you've upgraded
your phone or updated your software or
if you have a watch as well so I thought
I'd do go through everything and show
you what my normal numbers look like on
a normal day and how I use it and how I
kind of integrate it into my healthy
lifestyle oh and before I get started
today if you're only watching for a
couple of minutes I created a hosted a
free training last week on nutrition
it's all about nutrition and crushing
your cravings as appetit so you can lose
fat for in fat in your sleep
grab your metabolism if you want to
check out the free training and the
replay you can check check it out in the
description below it's totally free and
it just has so much great knowledge in
it there's a Q&A at the end there's all
this stuff so check it out if you want
kind of a free training session for you
guys petite women all about nutrition
okay so off the back I what I like about
this functionality and just the app in
general is that it does not give you
normal ranges or something to compare
yourself to so what you end up having is
sort of a long term record of what's
normal for you and that is kind of the
best thing when it comes to tracking
your results and tracking progress and
setting goals is not worrying about
other people not worrying about their
progress their results what numbers they
have and just worrying about what should
you or working with you know you know
I'm saying it's definitely helpful to
just not have that comparison going on
and there are some numbers we're going
to talk about one of them is heart rate
variability where it doesn't really
matter
what other people have I mean there's
some objectivity to it but it's so
specific to you it's better just just
see like what your track record is and
then know yourself because you've looked
at the data for a few months and then
you can kind of see how your body is
performing how you're feeling if you
have a goal if you're progressing based
off of where you currently are then I
don't make more sense once I get into
this but yeah so just to start off I'm
on the summary page
let's click activity browse so this just
has everything and by the way this is
not a typical day for me at all I'll
show you a typical day but we'll go
through every single thing I just have
been working all day so it's it's a busy
week normally my step count is about
eight to ten thousand steps per day I
work out once a day strength training
where I do some form like cardio but
we'll get there so let's start with a
stand ours so I like the stand ours
because if you're someone who works at a
desk all day and you don't have a
standing desk it will remind you
especially if you have watch to stand up
walk around once an hour it's generally
best for your metabolism and for your
body to get up once an hour do a lap
around the office or lap around the
block whatever it needs to be just to
get out of the posture of sitting for so
long sitting for a long time damages the
fat show which is types of structures in
your and your muscles shortens the front
and your back the front of the muscles
in your chest lengthens the ones in the
back and it can cause you to feel tight
in your neck all that stuff so if you
stand up you take a break you walk
around you're just gonna be healthier
overall so I like that they have stand
let's look at my weak and stand and see
how I did so I had seven hours of
standing 5 10 11 12 today is three as
you can see today is like not my normal
day I've had a lot of computer work I
need to do mainly because the training
that I just told you to go watch hasn't
happened yet and I'm preparing for it
it's actually in my time tomorrow and
your time it's already been done so I'm
doing a lot of work on that making sure
it's amazing for you guys and then we
can look at my monthly as well if you
usually scroll has highlights you can
see your averages which is helpful so my
average is probably 10 hours I stand for
10 hours a day so I'm making sure I get
up and move around a lot which is great
that's a pretty simple one let's move in
just a bit week maybe it looks like I
was really sick earlier this week so I
did not move a lot but you can see as I
got better it got progressively
progressively higher up to ten thousand
eight to ten again as my average looks
like yeah 8500 might have been my
average and that's what works for me I
don't have a step count goal but I know
that if I'm under 8,000 it's a slow day
for me and if I want to feel my best I
want to sleep my best I personally need
to get like right over 8,000 to really
feel good so that's something that's
really gonna be individual though you
should look at your data and see where
you are normally at and start to keep a
journal and see what you know when you
feel best generally getting a little bit
of exercise and this is just step count
this is not exercise necessarily this is
just like walking around it generally is
in order to get your step count higher
of course as petites if you've watched
my other videos if you get too high of a
step count you know 15,000 a day you're
gonna start playing with your appetite
hormones you're gonna get hungry because
that's a lot of extra energy expenditure
so just I recommend starting with 8 to
10 it's a good starting place and then
if your strength training in addition to
that you're gonna be in a really good
spot activity wise next up walking and
running distance I don't really pay
attention to this because I'm not a
runner
step count is like another thing way of
saying it so I just I don't know I don't
really let's just take a look for fun
it looks like I'm probably yeah 3 miles
a day I just don't really look at this
one it's not that important to me so
activity so this is interesting the
watch and the iPhone measure activity in
three ways standing exercising and
moving moving around step count I'm
pretty sure that space what it's based
on exercise I do not track and this is
something that I I personally if you use
My Fitness Pal if you use this I do not
track the calories that I expend through
exercise by working out because it's an
accurate it does not effect what you
should eat for example in my fitness
house sometimes people include their
exercise they'll enter into the
calculation and then tell you that you
can afford to eat more calories because
you exercise and I think that mentality
is really unhealthy and you should not
be thinking about the number of calories
you've exercised because you can't it's
on a direct correlation or translation
into how many calories you can eat in
the day so I don't track this it's going
off of what my watch tells it but I
don't go into my watch and click start
workout when I workout because also
lifting weights is pretty inaccurate
when it comes to tracking a workout it
really depends on the intensity how
heavy your lifting how short your rest
breaks are and the iPhone and the watch
can't grasp strength training it's more
accurate for calculating this activity
so running walking pipe gain that type
of thing so I don't really use this too
much I mean there are times where you
can't look at the year it has goals here
I didn't set those I will you know get
an alert on my watch that I closed all
three rings and it's just not what I
personally like to use for for engaging
my activity level I like to look at the
individual sets moving on to active and
resting energy so active and resting
energy are apples way of simplifying
your metabolism so in terms of resting
energy this is the resting metabolism
pretty much the calories you're burning
just to keep you alive where you're at
rest so when you're sleeping when you're
walking around basal metabolic rate that
type of thing it's not you know calories
that you're burning or spending when you
are exercise and then there's active
energy and it says here this is an
estimate of energy burned over and above
your resting energy active energy
includes activity such as walking slowly
pushing a wheelchair and household
chores or as well as exercise such as
in dancing so all that active energy is
gonna be your neat so this would be your
non exercise related act activity
thermogenesis so this is when fidgeting
walking around commuting and then it's
also gonna take into account your
workouts all of your energy that you're
expending through actually exercising um
this is something I also don't look at
for the same reason I just said I don't
like to track calories that I burn
because I'm not working out to burn
calories I don't care about calories
it's not something I'm interested in
resting energy this is pretty off my
resting energy I know is a little bit
higher than this I don't really know why
this is off but again I guess is
important to say I don't personally use
these that much getting into the next
couple things
flights climbed is interesting because I
do low intensity steady-state walks on
an incline on treadmill a few times a
week and that's interesting to sometimes
look at you'll see like I just went on a
hike last week I was in Joshua Tree so
that's what that 48 floors as I went on
a huge hike but the rest it's
interesting to kind of look at you know
if you do incline workouts kind of how
many floors you're climbing um and then
there's heart rates given into the heart
rate stuff heart rate generally there's
a couple things in here your heart rate
is what it is right now so whatever it's
measuring 77 I'm sitting here kind of
talking there are general guidelines for
where your heart rate should be based on
your activity level and your age it's an
indicator of health in terms of heart
rate variability this is an interesting
one I'd like to talk about because this
is it was a pretty big deal when they
added it to the iPhone and it's
basically a different measurement of
your heart rate where it's looking at
the time between your hearts beating and
the higher it is the better it's
actually a look at your your
relationship between your nervous system
and your heart and if it's higher it
means that your nervous system is doing
well it's recovering well from whatever
stress or adaptation you have put on it
say you know you started a new job it
could be stress like that it could be
psychological stress it could also be
physiological stress such as a workout
say you have a really hard
workout high-intensity interval training
for example and the next day you check
your your app and the number is low say
it's in the 40s for example right now
this is pretty low 40s I mean let's look
at the year I guess I have my own
average I guess I'm pretty steady here
but if for example you'll see this dip
35 I could have had a really hard
workout the day before and and my body
could feel fine but my nervous system
might have still been recuperating from
that workout and it's cool because you
can go in here and you can check and you
know if you had a really hard workout
yesterday and you're not sure if you
should go hard today you could check
your heart rate variability and relative
to what it was in the last few days if
it's dipped that's a good indicator that
you should take it easy maybe do some
yoga or something low intensity you go
for a walk but don't do a high-intensity
interval training or strength training
that's kind of a cool one and what's
great about this is there's no direct
value where you should be it's very much
it's very much
I just sorry I just got so distracted by
thoughts out of the window ton of school
kids just like ran by anyways it's very
much related to in and it's specific to
you as an individual so you don't have
to really compare your numbers to other
people's numbers or you know look up on
the internet what a normal heart rate
variability is it's very variable and
then resting heart rate usually the
lower this is the better indicator of
your heart health there's you know
correlations between reduced more bit
morbidity and heart disease and things
with the lower heart rate generally
athletes have lower heart rates that's
just another thing you can look into oh
this is what I really want to bring up
this one I just saw get at it
headphone audio levels I think that's
really cool because obviously as kids
and teenagers and then young adults in
college and whatever we can attend
concerts we attend things where
but audio levels are at a dangerously
high you know exposure level over time
and sometimes if we don't know it we
could be inducing that ourselves by
playing really loud music through our
earbuds so it looks like they just added
this one where they have the decibels
and they show you where your audio
levels are and it tells you if it's okay
or not so this one has a way more like
directed like you're in the safe zone or
not it looks like I've always been kind
of in the safe zone with this and I
don't really blast music that loud it
also has some nutrition stuff which in
my app pulled directly from My Fitness
Pal so I'm not going to go through that
it didn't record that some other things
I wanted to go over okay so they've just
added fertility tracking so they also
have fertility tracking which is cool it
says set up cycle tracking tracking your
menstrual cycle can help you understand
your overall health get started so I
don't do this because I'm on the pill so
I know exactly when I'm gonna have my
period but if you aren't on the pill it
could be really useful for tracking your
cycle and that could also help you gauge
you know whether you should work out
based on how you're feeling and all of
that stuff the other thing that's cool
about this is it has like a medical
preparedness element to it you can go
into it yourself and manually put in
your health record so for example if you
are have your phone and you get into
some trouble and you're unconscious on
the street god forbid someone could pick
up the phone your phone and potentially
see you know your allergies and you
could add this stuff I think that's
great I think it's good to have that on
record because if you live in a city you
might always have someone around you who
knows your medical history so I think
putting in your health records could be
a great addition I've never used this
for sleep before mainly because I don't
like just sleep with my phone right next
to me so you don't have any commentary
on this personally and in terms of
mindfulness so the watch buzzes some
and things something this thing will pop
up that says breathe and when I first
got it I thought it was kind of annoying
because it would buzz at random times
now I think it's really cool because I
set mine to only buzz I think I said
once a day but I swear it only buzzes
when my stress levels peak for some
reason for example if I'm stressed if I
am you know upset it actually little
buzz and tell me to breathe and it
actually has helped me become more aware
of my emotions and just tune into the
present that's a really cool feature
that the eye watch has or the watch it's
not that I watch the Genius Bar kept
telling me and the other thing is what I
use my watch for the most is the timer
when I'm working out this is like the
thing I use for the most set timers when
I'm doing Tabata and I'll also measure
my heart rate as I'm working out because
I'm trying if I'm doing a heart rate
training for example when I'm doing low
intensity steady-state cardio I want to
be at about 70% of my maximum heart rate
so the way you could figure this out
yourself is you're gonna do 220 minus
your age so for me that's 220 minus 27
is 193 and then you multiply 193 by the
percentage of 70 and that's gonna get me
like 135 beats per minute so then on my
watch if I want to be in a heart rate
zone of this over the 70s I'll try to
increase the intensity of the workout or
decrease it to get my heart rate to sync
up with 135 beats for a minute and then
try to maintain it there for a certain
amount of time that's definitely the
most useful thing for me in terms of
while I'm working out it's just the
heart rate training can be really really
good and it can also help you gauge your
intensity and learn you know where what
is intense for you so overall I had to
rate my top favorite features I would
say the step count is such a easy thing
to implement heart rate variability is a
really cool thing to kind of learn more
about and get a little bit more in tune
with your nervous system and your
the nervous system and then lastly the
heart rate beats per minute in live time
that's really great for when you're
working out I hope that you guys got
something out of this and you have hi
guys my campus just died
right as I was like saying goodbye to
you guys I hope you got some insight
from this and yeah I'm just filming the
restless' on my iPhone because I gotta
run out the door but I didn't I don't
have time to charge it but I wanted to
finish so yeah I hope you got something
useful out of this and I also wanted to
remind you to go watch the replay of the
live training it's only gonna be
available to watch for two more days to
48 hours so definitely sign up below in
the description really good training on
nutrition totally for you and what else
oh oh if you have ever been interested
in working with me for the next 48 hours
my program petite power it's a fitness
and nutrition program for petite women
it's coaching group coaching program it
is open for enrollment and it's the last
time of 2019 that I'm opening it for
enrollment so if you have any desire to
learn more or get into it definitely
check out the link below hit me up if
you have any question and of course
please like and subscribe if you got
anything from this and I hope you guys
have a great rest of your day talk to
you soon
fight
[Music]